add documentation for language features (#956)
themoeway/yomitan: docs/development/language-features.md

Reviewer: Add a reference to this in the README

# Contributing to a Language

Improving Yomitan's features for the language(s) you are interested in is pretty simple, and a great way to help yourself and others. This guide will help you get started.

> 

Reviewer: Is there any linguistic prerequisite people need to have?

Author: Nothing in particular that I can think of. Knowing basic parts of speech might help with writing deinflection, but I wanna make this as not scary as possible. If someone does something dumb, we should catch it in review anyway.

2. Place your language in the `languageDescriptors` array in `language-descriptors.js`. The languages are sorted alphabetically by ISO code.
3. The example text is usually some form of the verb "to read" in your language, but it can be any example you feel is good. This will be shown in the preview popup on the settings page.
4. If your language uses the Latin or Cyrillic script, or another script with capitalization, you will want to use the `capitalizationPreprocessors`. We'll cover this part in more detail a bit later. The `textPreprocessors` field can also be left out.

When in doubt, look at the other languages in the file for ideas. The same applies to `language-descriptors.d.ts`:

```ts
// language-descriptors.d.ts
nl: {
  pre: CapitalizationPreprocessors;
}
```

This is just for some type safety. The first key is the ISO code. Most languages will then only have a `pre` key (the other one is `post`), and its value is the type of text preprocessors you used in `language-descriptors.js`. Use the TypeScript operator `&` as needed. If you didn't use any text preprocessors, you can set the value to `Record<string, never>`.

> That's it! Your language should now be selectable from the dropdown, and may work perfectly fine already. For more advanced features, read on.

Reviewer: Maybe add a link to yomitan dictionaries? Hard to know if your language works without testing with dictionary

## Language Features

You should first have the repo set up locally according to the instructions in the [contributing guidelines](../../CONTRIBUTING.md).

A language descriptor in `language-descriptors.js` has several optional fields for more advanced features. We've already mentioned `textPreprocessors`, but there are also `languageTransforms`, `textPostprocessors`, and `isTextLookupWorthy`. Let's go through them (see also the full type definition in `language-descriptors.d.ts`).

### Text Preprocessors

> The scanned text may not exactly match the headword in the dictionary. For example, an English dictionary will likely contain the word "read", but the text may contain "Read" or "READ". To handle cases like this, we use text preprocessors.

Reviewer: I don't think people will know what headword is?

- A `process` function that takes a string and a setting and returns a string

Here are the `CapitalizationPreprocessors` used in the Dutch example:

```js
/** @type {import('language').TextProcessor<boolean>} */
export const decapitalize = {
  name: "Decapitalize text",
  description: "CAPITALIZED TEXT → capitalized text",
  options: basicTextProcessorOptions, // [false, true]
  process: (str, setting) => (setting ? str.toLowerCase() : str),
};

/** @type {import('language').TextProcessor<boolean>} */
export const capitalizeFirstLetter = {
  name: "Capitalize first letter",
  description: "lowercase text → Lowercase text",
  options: basicTextProcessorOptions, // [false, true]
  process: (str, setting) =>
    setting ? str.charAt(0).toUpperCase() + str.slice(1) : str,
};
```

When applying preprocessors, each combination will be separately applied and looked up. Since each of these two preprocessors has two options, there are 2\*2=4 possible combinations. For the input string `reaD`, the following strings will be looked up:

- `reaD` (both preprocessors off)
- `ReaD` (only `capitalizeFirstLetter` on)
- `read` (only `decapitalize` on)

> - `Read` (both preprocessors on)

Reviewer: Does order matter here?

It is important to note that rules chain together. If the `conditionsOut` of one rule match the `conditionsIn` of another rule, the algorithm will also attempt a lookup with the second rule applied to the output of the first rule. This is indispensable for agglutinative languages, but may cause unexpected behavior. For example, if the `plural` rule in the example were `suffixInflection('s', '', ['n'], ['n'])`. Scanning the word `boss` would also display results for the word `bo` (e.g. the staff) with the `plural` rule applied twice.

A list of the rule chains that were applied is shown in the search results, marked with a 🧩.

The `suffixInflection` is a helper function - you can write more complex rules, using regex and a function for deinflecting. There are examples of this across the language transforms files.

### Text Postprocessors

In special cases, text may need to be modified after deinflection. These work exactly like text preprocessors, but are applied after deinflection. Currently, this is only used for Korean, where the Hangul text is disassembled into jamo during preprocessing, and so must be reassembled after deinflection.

### Text Lookup Worthiness

> Some features include checking whether a string is possibly a word in the language. For example, a word written in japanese characters (e.g. "日本語") is not a possible English word, and vice versa for text in the Latin script. To prevent unnecessary lookups, an `isTextLookupWorthy` function can be provided, otherwise all text will be looked up.

Reviewer: I'm kind of lost on this example 🤔

Author: Not sure what there is to be lost about lol, English has no kanji words, and Japanese has (basically) no alphabet words. Any specific wording you'd change?

It is important to note that rules chain together. If the `conditionsOut` of one rule match the `conditionsIn` of another rule, the algorithm will also attempt a lookup with the second rule applied to the output of the first rule. This is indispensable for agglutinative languages, but may cause unexpected behavior. For example, if the `plural` rule in the example were `suffixInflection('s', '', ['n'], ['n'])`. Scanning the word `boss` would also display results for the word `bo` (e.g. the staff) with the `plural` rule applied twice.

A list of the rule chains that were applied is shown in the search results, marked with a 🧩.

The `suffixInflection` is a helper function - you can write more complex rules, using regex and a function for deinflecting. There are examples of this across the language transforms files.

### Text Postprocessors

In special cases, text may need to be modified after deinflection. These work exactly like text preprocessors, but are applied after deinflection. Currently, this is only used for Korean, where the Hangul text is disassembled into jamo during preprocessing, and so must be reassembled after deinflection.

### Text Lookup Worthiness

> Some features include checking whether a string is possibly a word in the language. For example, a word written in japanese characters (e.g. "日本語") is not a possible English word, and vice versa for text in the Latin script. To prevent unnecessary lookups, an `isTextLookupWorthy` function can be provided, otherwise all text will be looked up.

Reviewer: I think I got tripped up being a Japanese learner and assumed the example was for someone learning Japanese so got confused. Suggestion to make it clearer?

```suggestion
Some features include checking whether a string could have a potential entry in a language. For example, trying to look up an English word written with non-Latin characters (e.g. "日本語" in Japanese) will never yield any results. To prevent unnecessary lookups, an `isTextLookupWorthy` function can be provided, otherwise all text will be looked up.
```
